──────── *for more from the author, visit* [github.com/hazemanwer2000](https://github.com/hazemanwer2000). ────────
## *Table of Contents*
...
## Content
---
### Abbreviations
---
* **QM** - Quality Management
* **E/E** - Electrical and/or Electronic
### Concept Phase
---
An **item** is a **system** that implements a function, or part of a function, at the vehicle-level.

A system is a set of **components**, or sub-systems, that relates at least a sensor, a controller and an actuator with one another.

A component is compromised of more than one (E/E) hardware parts (e.g., microcontroller), or one or more software units.

An **item definition** lists information about an item, including,
* its boundary (i.e., what distinguishes it from its operational environment, including interfaces to and interactions with).
* its intended functionality,
* its (preliminary) architecture, and,
* its operational environment.
#### Hazard Analysis and Risk Assessment (HARA)
---
A **hazard** is a potential source of injury caused by malfunctioning behavior of the item (e.g., unintended acceleration).

A **hazardous event** is the occurrence of a hazard in a specific **operational situation** (e.g., unintended acceleration while parking in a crowded garage).

Using the item definition of an item, all hazardous events shall be identified.

For each hazardous event, assuming the associated hazard occurred,
* A class of **severity** (of injury) is assigned.
* A class of probability of **exposure** is assigned, denoting the likelihood for the vehicle to be in the associated operational situation (e.g., driving at 250 km/h is unlikely, parking in a crowded garage is likely).
* A class of **controllability** is assigned, denoting the likelihood that the affected user is able to gain sufficient control of the hazardous event, such that they are able to avoid injury.

| Class of severity | Description                                                   |
| ----------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------- |
| S0                | No injuries                                                   |
| S1                | Light and moderate injuries                                   |
| S2                | Severe and life-threatening injuries; Survival probable       |
| S3                | Life-threatening injuries; Survival uncertain, fatal injuries |

| Class of probability of exposure | Description |
| -------------------------------- | ----------- |
| E0                               | Negligible  |
| E1                               | Very low    |
| E2                               | Low         |
| E3                               | Medium      |
| E4                               | High        |

| Class of controllability | Description                          |
| ------------------------ | ------------------------------------ |
| C0                       | Controllable                         |
| C1                       | Simply controllable                  |
| C2                       | Normally controllable                |
| C3                       | Difficult to control, uncontrollable |

For each hazardous event, based on the severity, exposure and controllability classes,
* an **Automotive Safety Integrity Level (ASIL)** is assigned, which may be either A, B, C or D, in increasing order.
* one or more **safety goals** (i.e., high-level requirements) are determined.
#### Functional Safety Concept
---
To achieve the safety goals, safety requirements are specified, collectively termed the **functional safety concept**.
### Product Development Phase
---
#### Faults
---
There are two types of **faults** that could lead to a hazardous event:
* **Random hardware faults.**
* **Systematic** (hardware or software) **faults**.

There are two approaches to fault analysis.
* Deductive analysis, via **Fault Tree Analysis (FTA)** — *"What chain of events could lead to hazardous event X occurring?"*.
* Inductive analysis, via **Failure Modes and Effects Analysis (FMEA)** — *"For all possible faults identified, if fault occurs, what happens?"*

Faults can also be classified according to their effect.
* A **multiple-point fault** is a fault that leads to a hazardous event only if it occurs along with *N-1* other multiple-point faults.
* A **dual-point fault** is a multiple-point fault with *N=2*.
* A **single-point fault** is a multiple-point fault with *N=1*.
##### Random Hardware Faults
---
For each 
## References
---
[1] ISO 26262:2018, Road Vehicles, Functional Safety