──────── *for more from the author, visit* [github.com/hazemanwer2000](https://github.com/hazemanwer2000). ────────
## *Table of Contents*
- [[#Concept Phase|Concept Phase]]
	- [[#Concept Phase#Threat Analysis and Risk Assessment (TARA)|Threat Analysis and Risk Assessment (TARA)]]
		- [[#Threat Analysis and Risk Assessment (TARA)#Threat Analysis|Threat Analysis]]
		- [[#Threat Analysis and Risk Assessment (TARA)#Impact Rating|Impact Rating]]
		- [[#Threat Analysis and Risk Assessment (TARA)#Attack Path Analysis|Attack Path Analysis]]
			- [[#Attack Path Analysis#Attack Feasibility Rating|Attack Feasibility Rating]]
		- [[#Threat Analysis and Risk Assessment (TARA)#Risk Value Determination|Risk Value Determination]]
		- [[#Threat Analysis and Risk Assessment (TARA)#Risk Treatment Decision|Risk Treatment Decision]]
	- [[#Concept Phase#Cybersecurity Concept|Cybersecurity Concept]]
- [[#Product Development Phase|Product Development Phase]]
	- [[#Product Development Phase#Vulnerability Analysis|Vulnerability Analysis]]
## Content
---
### Concept Phase
---
An **item** is a component, or a set of, that implements a function at the vehicle-level, and contains one or more **assets**.

Followingly, an asset is an object with one or more **cybersecurity properties**, whose compromise can contribute to one or more **damage scenarios**.

Cybersecurity properties include,
* **Confidentiality**,
* **Integrity**,
* **Availability**,
* **Authenticity**,
* **Authorization**,
* **Non-repudiation**,
* **Privacy**, and,
* **Freshness**.

An **item definition** lists information about an item, including,
* its boundary (i.e., what distinguishes it from its operational environment, including interfaces to and interactions with).
* its intended functionality,
* its (preliminary) architecture, and,
* its operational environment.
#### Threat Analysis and Risk Assessment (TARA)
---
##### Threat Analysis
---
A **threat scenario** is a potential cause of compromise in one or more of the cybersecurity properties of one or more assets.

To identify threat scenarios, a threat-modelling approach based on the **STRIDE** framework (or an alternative framework) may be used.

In the STRIDE framework, six threat categories are defined, each corresponding to one or more cybersecurity properties, as shown below. 

| Threat Category         | Explanation                                                  | Cybersecurity Property        |
| ----------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------ | ----------------------------- |
| Spoofing                | Attacker pretends to be someone or something else.           | Authenticity,<br>Freshness    |
| Tampering               | Attacker changes data in-transit or stored.                  | Integrity                     |
| Repudiation             | Attacker performs actions that cannot be traced back to him. | Non-repudiation,<br>Freshness |
| Information Disclosure  | Attacker gets access to data in-transit or stored.           | Confidentiality,<br>Privacy   |
| Denial-of-Service (DoS) | Attacker interrupts a system's legitimate operation.         | Availability                  |
| Elevation of Privilege  | Attacker performs actions he is not authorized to perform.   | Authorization                 |

Using the item definition of an item, assets, and associated cybersecurity properties, are identified, after which relevant threat categories from STRIDE are applied, formulating the different threat scenarios associated with the item.
##### Impact Rating
---
For each damage scenario, an impact rating is determined, which may be *severe*, *major*, *moderate*, or *negligible*.

The impact rating is based on four factors: *Safety*, *Financial*, *Operational*, and *Privacy* *(SFOP)*.

| Impact Rating | Criteria (Safety)                                              |
| ------------- | -------------------------------------------------------------- |
| Severe        | Life-threatening injuries (survival uncertain); Fatal injuries |
| Major         | Life-threatening injuries (survival probable); Severe injuries |
| Moderate      | Light/Moderate injuries                                        |
| Negligible    | No injuries                                                    |

| Impact Rating | Criteria (Financial)                                                             |
| ------------- | -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| Severe        | Catastrophic consequences;<br>Affected user might not overcome                   |
| Major         | Substantial consequences;<br>Affected user will overcome                         |
| Moderate      | Inconvenient consequences;<br>Affected user will overcome with limited resources |
| Negligible    | Negligible or no consequences                                                    |

| Impact Rating | Criteria (Operational)                       |
| ------------- | -------------------------------------------- |
| Severe        | Loss/Impairment of core functionality        |
| Major         | Loss/Impairment of important functionality   |
| Moderate      | Partial impairment of functionality          |
| Negligible    | No (perceivable) impairment of functionality |

| Impact Rating | Criteria (Privacy)                                                                                                                |
| ------------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| Severe        | Leakage of highly sensitive data, easy to link to affected user                                                                   |
| Major         | Leakage of highly sensitive data, difficult to link to affected user;<br>Leakage of sensitive data, easy to link to affected user |
| Moderate      | Leakage of sensitive data, difficult to link to affected user;<br>Leakage of non-sensitive data, easy to link to affected user    |
| Negligible    | Irrelevant to user                                                                                                                |
##### Attack Path Analysis
---
An **attack path** is a deliberate action, or a set of, to realize a threat scenario.

Usually, at this phase, a top-down approach is used to deduce attack paths (e.g., attack trees).
###### Attack Feasibility Rating
---
Usually, at this phase, an **attack vector-based** approach is used to determine a feasibility rating of each attack path.

In an attack vector-based approach, an attack path is deemed more feasible if the attacker can be more remote.
##### Risk Value Determination
---
For each threat scenario, a risk value (i.e., 1-5) is determined based on,
* the impact rating of associated damage scenarios, and,
* the feasibility rating of associated attack paths.
##### Risk Treatment Decision
---
For each threat scenario, considering its risk value, one of the following risk treatment options shall be decided:
1. Avoiding the risk (i.e., removing the risk sources).
2. Reducing the risk, and accordingly, specifying one or more **cybersecurity goals** (i.e., high-level requirements).
3. Sharing the risk (e.g., insurance), or retaining the risk, and documenting its acceptance as a **residual risk** as a **cybersecurity claim**.
#### Cybersecurity Concept
---
To achieve the cybersecurity goals, cybersecurity requirements are specified, collectively termed the **cybersecurity concept**.
### Product Development Phase
---
In the design phase, cybersecurity specifications are specified, with traceability to the requirements.
#### Vulnerability Analysis
---
A **weakness** is a characteristic or a defect that can lead to undesired behavior.

A **vulnerability** is a weakness that can be exploited as part of an attack path.

Hence, **vulnerability analysis** involves,
* the identification of weaknesses (e.g., fuzz testing, penetration testing, vulnerability scanning), and,
* attack path analysis, to determine if a subset of the weaknesses identified constitute one or more (new) attack paths.

For new attack paths, usually, at this phase, an **attack potential-based** approach is used to determine a feasibility rating of each attack path.

In an attack potential-based approach, an attack path is evaluated based on the following metrics:
* Time required (i.e., to discover and exploit the vulnerabilities that constitute the attack path).
* Expertise required.
* Type of information required (e.g., public, confidential).
* Window of opportunity (i.e., the more remote, the more feasible).
* Type of equipment required (e.g., standard, specialized).
## References
---
[1] ISO/SAE 21343:2021, Road Vehicles, Cybersecurity Engineering